# Pre-requirements

Before we start, make sure the following systems are installed on your computer.

- [git](https://git-scm.com/) (I'm using version `2.26.2` while writing this lesson)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (I'm using version `v14.15.4` while writing this lesson)
- NPM (I'm using version `6.14.11` while writing this lesson)

**Note:** I recommend that you use the same or greater versions of the above-mentioned systems.

**Note 2:** When installing Node.js, [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) is automatically installed, so you don't need to do it yourself.

**Note 3:** To check which versions of git, Node.js, and NPM you're using, run `git --version && node --version && npm --version` on your terminal.

**Note 4:** On the above-list, I left links to downloads all of the requirements.

## Cloning the project 🐑

Open the browser, access the following URL https://github.com/wlsf82/cypress-advanced-course, click on the <kbd>Code</kbd> button, choose a clone option (HTTPS or SSH), copy the clone link, and on your command line terminal (inside of a directory where you store your software projects), run `git clone [paste-the-copied-link-here]`.

After cloning the project, access it (e.g., `cd cypress-advanced-course`).

Inside the `cypress-advanced-course/` directory, you will have the following sub-directories `.git/` (hidden directory), `cypress/` and `lessons/`, and the following files `.gitignore` (hidden file), `cypress.json`, `LICENSE`, `packag-lock.json`, `package.json`, and `README.md`.

## Installing the dev dependencies

With the project cloned from **GitHub**, it's time to install its dev dependencies.

Since such dependencies are already listed in the `package.json` file, the only thing you need to do is run `npm install` (or `npm i` - short version) in the project's root directory.

> 🧙 This command will download `cypress`, `cypress-localstorage-commands`, `faker`, and `standardjs` since they're listed as `devDependencies`.

Run `npm test` (or `npm t` - short version) to ensure that everything is working as expected. If everything goes well, you should get a result like this.

```sh
> cypress run


...

  Running:  hackerStories.spec.js                                                           (1 of 1)


  Hacker Stories
    ✓ shows the footer (1776ms)
    List of stories
      - shows the right data for all rendered stories
      ✓ shows the next twenty stories after clicking "More" (1215ms)
      ✓ shows 20 stories, I dismiss one, then it shows one less (658ms)
      Order by
        - orders by title
        - orders by author
        - orders by comments
        - orders by points
      Errors
        - shows "Something went wrong ..." in case of a server error
        - shows "Something went wrong ..." in case of a network error
    Search
      ✓ types and hits ENTER (1388ms)
      ✓ types and clicks the submit button (1125ms)
      Last searches
        ✓ searches via the last searched term (1807ms)
        ✓ shows a max of 5 buttons for the last searched terms (2246ms)


  7 passing (10s)
  7 pending


  ...
```

### Additional information

- `cypress` is the test automation framework that I'll teach you some advanced functionalities
- We will use `cypress-localstorage-commands` to access the browser's `localStorage` during some of the tests
- We will use `faker` to generate random data for one of the tests
- And `standardjs` will be used as our linter

___

Cool, we're done with the pre-requirements. ☑️

Go to [lesson 1](./1.md) to get to know the application under test and the challenges waiting for you.
